[release] 1.6.0.CR1 announcement (#683)
debezium/debezium.github.io: _posts/2021-06-24-debezium-1-6-cr1-released.adoc

---
layout: post
title:  Debezium 1.6.0.CR1 Released
date:   2021-06-24
tags: [ releases, mysql, postgres, sqlserver, cassandra, oracle, outbox ]
author: ccranfor
---

It's my pleasure to announce the release of Debezium *1.6.0.CR1*!

This release adds skipped operations optimizations for SQL Server, introduces Heartbeat support to the Oracle connector,
Oracle BLOB/CLOB support is now opt-in only, and provides a range of bug fixes and other improvements across different Debezium connectors.

+++<!-- more -->+++

== Skipped operations optimizations - SQL Server

Debezium introduced the notion of `skipped.operations` some time ago.

> This feature was to allow connectors to control what change events were emitted during the streaming phase, optionally omitting certain changes such as updates or deletes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature allows connectors to control what change events are emitted during the streaming phase, optionally omitting certain change types such as updates or deletes.
```

The `skipped.operations` feature was originally implemented to act more like an SMT where it was a filter that was applied toward the end of the CDC pipeline just before an event was emitted.
While this worked well, there was an optimization that could be achieved here because SQL Server records the change type in the capture table along side the change data.
Using this knowledge, the query to fetch changes from the capture table was adjusted so that the changes returned from SQL Server are pre-filtered based on these "skipped operations".

> Overall, this optimization should improve both the time spent during iterations of capturing changes when the conenctor is configured to use `skipped.operations` as well as reduce the overall garbage collection that the connector may do over its lifetime due to generating fewer objects that are later discarded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Overall, this optimization should improve both the time spent during iterations of capturing changes when the connector is configured to use `skipped.operations` as well as reduce the overall garbage collection that the connector may do over its lifetime due to generating fewer objects that are later discarded.
```

Many thanks to https://github.com/blcksrx[Hossein Torabi] for identifying this optimization and contributing it!

> == Oracle Heartbeat Support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Heartbeat Support for the Oracle Connector
```

I know we often say "MySQL", "Oracle", etc. when actually referring to the "Debezium MySQL connector" or the "Debezium connector for Oracle". That's fine internally, but let's use it more clearly in public posts and the likes.

Debezium supports heartbeats across its other connectors, this feature is now available to Oracle!

A heartbeat is a critical part of insuring that a connector's offsets remain synchronized with Kafka.

> Normally, the offsets are automatically maintained by Kafka when we emit an event to a topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Normally, the offsets are automatically maintained by Kafka Connect when we emit an event to a topic.
```

But there are circumstances that occur in environments where event emission can be infrequent enough that stale offsets become a concern.

> Regardless which adapter the Oracle connector is deployed to use, there are situations where events may be seen by the connector or offset state is updated but because we don't emit an event to Kafka, the offsets maintained locally by the connector may become stale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regardless which adapter the Debezium Oracle connector is deployed to use, there are situations where events may be seen by the connector or offset state is updated but because we don't emit an event to Kafka, the offsets maintained locally by the connector may become stale.
```

For example, the connector could be capturing changes for a table that changes very infrequently compared to other tables in the data source.

In order to guarantee that offsets remain synchronized with Kafka, specifically during periods of low capture activity, the `heartbeat.interval.ms` configuration option can be set to periodically keep offsets in sync.

== Oracle BLOB/CLOB Support now Opt-In

> While we added support for `BLOB` and `CLOB` data types to the Oracle connector in an earlier 1.6 pre-release, we believe that the support for these types is still an ongoing one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While we added support for `BLOB` and `CLOB` data types to the Debezium connector for Oracle in an earlier 1.6 pre-release, we believe that the work towards fully supporting these types is still an ongoing one.
```
